ALEX RIVADENEIRA 
(202) 459 1316
alexrivadeneira.github.io 
alexrivs@gmail.com                                                                                                             github.com/alexrivadeneira 
 
** Education - Dartmouth College, BA 2010 

Clear-communicating educator and full-stack web developer interested in building common-sense software to reimagine and improve the classroom. 

Web Development Immersive Student  
General Assembly, Computer Programming School                                Washington, D.C., November 2014 – present  
A three-month intensive web development class to supplement self-learning. Main languages are Ruby and 
Javascript, using Rails, Sinatra, Backbone and Meteor to develop applications from the ground up. Style application 
front-ends with Javascript, JQuery, SASS and CSS that display as intended in modern web browsers, including 
dynamic AJAX calls. Interface with APIs to harness third party data. Create and manage databases/models with 
Postgresql and ActiveRecord, and MongoDB. Develop wireframes, test with RSpec Ruby Gem, and track 
collaborative development using version control with Git and Github.   
• “Calculator Race” – A simple game built using Meteor JS and MongoDB where players race one another to 
answer math questions. 
• “Head to Head” – A game where users compete to guess one another’s preferences. Built game logic with Ruby 
and routed actions using Ruby Gem/framework Sinatra. Created and migrated data models using 
ActiveRecord and Postgresql. Used Git and Github for version control and deployed to Heroku. 
• “Drizzly” (Collaborative project) – Weather app that queries Weather Underground API and makes dynamic 
AJAX calls to present conditions in the user’s favorite locations. Used Rails and Ruby Gem Devise to set 
up user authentication and basic HTTP routes.   
• Python Data Science Workshop – Used Python’s Anaconda and Pandas to create predictive models.   
Special Investigator & Investigations Coordinator   
U.S. State Department, Diplomatic Security Contractor          Washington, D.C. & Mumbai, India, 2013 – present 
 Created PHP forms to automate parts of report writing, allowing for faster completion of investigations.   
 
Bandra, Mumbai Programming Learners Club Founder                                                   Mumbai, India, 2013  
Established a weekly Meetup group to teach and share web development knowledge while working with the State 
Department in India. Built games in Python. Interacted with international entrepreneurs and code enthusiasts.   
Senior Teacher Candidate Services Specialist   
American Board for Certification of Teacher Excellence                                            Washington, D.C., 2012-2013   
Reported candidate test data to State Departments of Education using Lotus databases and Excel, including v- 
lookups, data sorting/concatenation, and pivot tables. Updated website using Drupal CMS, and used Google 
Analytics to track traffic. Worked with team of programmers to develop new software and web-based products. 
  
                                                          Additional Professional Experience 
Special Investigator & Background Investigations Coordinator   
U.S. State Department, Diplomatic Security Contract                  Washington, D.C. & Mumbai, India, 2013 – present 
 Investigate officials and foreign nationals at the U.S. Consulate in Mumbai, India and Washington, D.C. area to 
determine suitability for access to classified information. Interview individuals for background investigations and 
develop investigation leads. Write reports on findings. Obtained Top Secret government clearance.   
Senior Teacher Candidate Services Specialist   
American Board for Certification of Teacher Excellence                                               Washington, D.C., 2012-2013   
Performed candidate background checks and verified eligibility for certification. Advised candidates on best 
practices for studying and writing essays. Managed assistant. Assisted with human resource duties.   
Teacher, English, Grades 9, 11, 12   
Marshall Islands Ministry of Education & Don Bosco High School Jaluit, RMI & Washington, D.C., 2010-2012 
 Developed curriculum and dynamic grammar teaching system for diverse and low-income learners.    

Academic Citation in Math, 2006. Cum Laude Honors, 2007-2008